Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
Ans: a set of instructions written in a specific language to perform a specific task,used by programmers to communicate with computers.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
 Java Compiler , Java Disassembler,Java Debugger, Java Header File Generator , Java Documentation,Applet viewer,API source code

What is IDE?
Integrated Development Environment is software thar bring together tools for developing other software(mobile application,software for computers or game consoles,websites..)
as well as creating libraries or frameworks

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
Eclipse , Intellij Idea,NetBeans

Explain the entire java life cycle:We create our java code in any editor and than we save it as .Java fils Which
called source code and then it will be compiled by a java compiler


what is class?
A class is created by the programmer to accomplish some set of task like create objects , and to define data type
and method

What is object?
The object is an instance of class and entity that has state and behavior

What is the entry point of an application?
Main method

Why main is static?
Static that"s mean allow main method to be called without creating an object of the class in which the main method is
defined

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
The class named object is the super class of all class in java

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
path is a environment variable which is used by the operating system to find the executables
and the classpath is an environment variable which is used by the java compiler to find the path of class.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Interface can have just abstract methods, and Abstract class can have abstract and non-abstract methods
The interface can't do anything ,it's just a pattern
Abstract class look a lot like interfaces ,but they have something more you can define a behavior for them

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
W e can not make an object from interface and abstract class,but you can make one from the subclass

what is Access Specifier?
Access specifier are used to set the accessibility of class,variables,methods

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
Object-Oriented Programming is software programming model constructed around project
 is provides a clear structure for the programme.
 Abstraction
 Encapsulation
 Inheritance
 Polymorphism

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A group of similar types of classes and interfaces,subpackages
 Java.lang package

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
an interface that defines interactions between multiple software application

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
Java does not support multiple inheritances ,This mean a class can not extend more than one class

What is method overloading and when it happens?
is a feature that allows two ore more methods have the same name if they have different
parameters

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
Errors it's simple error represent irrecoverable condition ,can happen during the execution of a program
we can handle it with a try and catch handle.


What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
the static keyword in java is used to share the same variable or methode of a given class
Static variables : When a variable is declared as static is shred among all objects of the class level
  static variable are essentially global variables all instances of the class share the same static variable.
Static method : is method they an only call directly other static method and and is associated
 with the class it self not with any particular object

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
Final that's mean when a variable is declared with final keyword ,this value can't be modified ,essentially,
a constant and also means that you must initialise a final variable

What is final, finally and finalize?
-Final keyword is used with the class , methods and variables and final variable value can't be changed
-Finally is the block in java exception handing to execute the important code
 whether the exception occurs or not.
-Finalize:is used to perform clean up processing just before object is garbage collected.

What is a constructor ?
A constructor is a block of codes similar to the method ,it is called when an instance
of class is created.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
Yes we can have multiple constructors.

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
A constructor by default

What is "this" keyword in java ?
Keyword "this" in java is a reference variable that refers to the current object

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
Keyword "super" in java is a reference variable which is used to refer immediate parent class objet
super can be used to refer immediate parent class instance variable and it an be used to invoke immediate parent  class method.

What is JVM stand for ?
Java virtual machine

Is JVM platform independent?
Yes

What version of java are you using?
1.8.0

What is JAR stand for ?
Java Archive

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
JDK:contains Jvm and whole others tools for java development inside ir
JVM:is a environment for executing bytecode.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
JVM:is a environment for executing bytecode
JRE:for run bytecode on any platform you need JRE

What is compile time and run time?
Compile time is when you build you code and run time whe is your code is executed

What is heap?
is a special tree-based date structure in which the tree is a complete binary tree

How java manage it's memory?
The JVM loads and verifies ,executes the code ,manages memory this includes allocating
memory from the operating system  ,java use an automatic memory management system called a garbage collector

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
String:is an object which represents a sequence of characters
StringBuffer operation are thread-safe and synchronized
StringBuilder operations are not thread-safe are not-synchronized

What is Singleton class?
Singleton class is a class that can have only one objet at a time and it's control object creation by keeping private constructor

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
Serialization is way used to convert an object into a byte stream (is mechanism of converting)
Deserialization is the reverse process of serialization (of creating object from sequence of bytes)

when to use transient variable in java?
Transient is a variable modifier used in serialization where we don"t want to save private data in file you use transient keyword

Difference between while and do..while loop?
While loop executes the code block only is conditions is true
Do while loop it checks for the condition after executing the statements

What is Enum?
Enum is special java type used to define group  of constants

What is Iterator?
is used in the collection framework to retrieve elements on by one

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Integer

Why is String Immutable in Java?
because of the security ,synchronization and concurrency,caching ,and class loading

What is constructor chaining in Java?
constructor chaining is a sequence of invoking constructors upon initializing an object ,it is used
when we want to invoke a number of constructors one after another by using only an instance

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
Serial collector is default copying collector which designed for single-threaded environments
Garbage collector is used for multi-threaded environments

What is JIT stands for?
Just In Time

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Java Heap space is used by java runtime to allocate memory to object and JRE classes.
whenever we create any object ,it's always created in the Heap space.
Garbage Collection runs on the heap memory to free the memory used by object that doesn't have any reference

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
No

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
The major difference between stack memory and heap memory is that stack is used to store
local variables and local variables,While heap memory is used to store objects in java and
it uses dynamic memory allocation and deallocation

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
Reflection is used to describe code which is able to inspect other code in the same system
Reflection is important because it lets you write programs that do not have to know evrthing at compile tine,
making them more dynamic ,since they can be tied together at runtime.

what is multithreading in java?
Multithreading is a process of executing multiple threads simultaneously

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
Synchronization is the process of allowing threads to execute one after another

What is Framework?
A Software framework is an abstraction in which software providing generic functionality can be selectively
changed by additional user-written code

What are the testing Framework available in java?
Junit , TestNg , DbUnit , Rest Assured , Cucumber

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
jUnit is an open-source unit testing framework for java ,it is used to test small code units
testNg is a java-based test automation framework that was inspired by JUnit it uses more java features

What are the dependencies for this project?
dependencies are quick solutions with convenient packaging ,they are modules which provides specific functionality

what is dependency injection in java?
is the ability of an object to supply dependencies of another object

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
Static binding is when type of the object is determined at compiled time
Dynamic binding is when tye of the object is determined at run-time
