Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?
data structure it plays a vital role in enhancing the performance of a software or a program
 as the main function of the software is to store and retrieve the user's date as fast as possible

What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
 Searching
 Merging
 Sorting
 Deletion
 Insertion
 Traversing

List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
 Operating System
 Compiler Design
 database Management System
 Simulation
 Artificial Intelligent

what is an Array?
Arrays are the simplest data structures thar store items of the same data type

what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
Array is fixed and can store primitive variable and objects
ArrayList is dynamic and can store only objects and is a class of collection framework

what is LinkedList?
LinkedList is a collection which can contain many objects of the same type

How is an Array different from Linked List?
Array store elements in contiguous memory location resulting in easily calculable addresses for
the elements stored and this allows faster access to an element at a specific index
LinkedList consumed extra memory as the link location need to be saved in the liked
part of the previous elements in case of array it is not required.

what is queue?
it is a linear data structure where elements can be accessed on the basis  of FIF0

what is stack?
Stack is a linear data structure where elements can be accessed on the basis of LIFO

what is FIFO and LIFO?
FIFO : ( first in ,first out ) it is a method for handling data structures where the first
element is processed first and the newest element processed last
LIFO:(Last in ,first out ) it is a method for handling data structures where the last element
processed first and the first element is processed last

what is the order of complexity?
Generally the smaller the order of complexity of the program's underlying
algorithm ,the faster it will run and the better it will scale as the input gets larger,thus we
should often seek more efficient algorithms in order to reduce the order of complexity.


what is the best case to search an element from an array?
Sorting algorithm and Binary search

what is the worst case to search an element from an array?
for an unsorted array we have to search element by element

what is tree in data structure?
Is non-linear data structure because it does not store in a sequential manner
it can be empty or a tree can be a structure consisting of one code called sub-trees

what is graph in data structure?
Graph in data structure are non-linear made up of a finite number of nude of vertices and the edges that connect them
are used to address real world problem in which it represents the problem area as a network like telephone networks,circuit networks


what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
 HashMap is non synchronized it is non thread safe and can't be shared between many
thread without proper synchronization code and is fast.
 HashTable is synchronized it is thread safe and can be shared with many threads and is slow

What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.
  1. RDBMS (Array)
  2.Hierarchical data model (trees)
  3.Network data model(Graph)

How HashMap works in java?
A hashMap element has key and value in java ,elements are stored against a key
map interface implemented on HashMap in java collection framework ,element manipulation is easy on the basis of key of value

What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
the ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException occurs whenever we are trying to access any item of an array at an index which is not present in the array
the index can be negative or exceed the size of an array

What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
1.Manually
2.System.arraycopy()
3.Array.copyOf()
4.Object.clone()

What is difference between an array and a linked list?
Array store elements in contiguous memory locations,resulting in easily
calculable addresses for the elements stored and this allows faster access to an element at a specific index
Linked list are less rigid their storage structure and elements are usually not stored
in contiguous locations ,hence they need to be stored with additional tags giving a reference to the next element

What is DFS and BFS?
BFS : Breadth First Search is an algorithm for traversing or searching tree or graph data structure ,
it starts at the tree roots and explores the neighbour nodes first before visiting to the next level of neighbours.
DFS : Depth  First Search is an algorithm for traversing or searching tree or graph data structure ,
it starts at the root and explores as far as possible along each branch before backtracking

What is Recursion?
is a process where a method calls itself inside the method ,the method which causes recursion is called recursive method.

What are linear and non linear data Structures?
Linear data structures where data elements are arranged sequentially or linearly ,where each and every element
is attached to its previous and next adjacent and non linear data structures where data elements are not
arranged sequentially or linearly


What is Big-(O)-notation?
Is used in computer science to describe the performance or complexity of an algorithm ,big (0 ) specifically describes
the worst case scenario , and can be used to describe the execution time required or the space used by algorithm.
